# CMSC6950_Project
Course Project for CMSC6950 Spring 2021

Ruixin Song


## Software setup

### Install conda
Though the latest Python version is already 3.9.x when writing this document, conda with Python-3.8.x environment is more recommanded in terms of to be compatible with the Visualization Toolkit (VTK), which will be introduced later.

### Install Capytaine
After setting up conda, install the Capytaine module by:
```
conda install -c conda-forge capytaine
```
### Visualization dependencies
After setting up capytaine module, we need to install the visualization dependencies that were not inlusive in the capytaine: matplotlib and VTK (Visualization Toolkit).

According to the Capytaine [installation](https://ancell.in/capytaine/latest/user_manual/installation.html), we can simply execute:
```diff
conda install matplotlib
- conda install vtk
+ pip install vtk
```
However, the conda installing VTK part is not working on my machine, with an error like "vtk is incompatible with your python environment", since the VTK version accessed by conda can only support to Python 3.7.x. 

From the developers, the latest VTK wheel has been published supports Python-3.8, which can be reached by PyPl. Therefore, using `pip` instead of `conda` while installing VTK.

### netCDF and xarray
For loading the intermediate netCDF files generated by computational scripts, please make sure you have netCDF module in your machine. If you don't have one, simply run:
```diff
- conda install netCDF4
+ pip install netCDF4
```
Both might work for you! But I would recommend using PyPl since Conda failed to install netCDF module on my machine with some package conflicts happened.

`xarray` module should have been installed within `capytaine`. You may check by running python in command-line and trying `import xarray`. If it goes wrong, execute: 
```
pip install xarray
```

If all work fine, the environment is set up!

## About the repository
Folder `examples`: I played with some instances in the capytaine [documentation](https://ancell.in/capytaine/latest/user_manual/cookbook.html) and backup the code and results here. 